My name is Andreas Fuglesteg Dale, I'm a fullstack developer from Norway!

I currently work at Evidi as a consultant. At work I help clients design and
implement software projects. These projects are usually built on Microsoft
technology, Azure, C#/.NET, MSSQL Server, etc. For frontends I am mostly
working in Vue.

I have a bachelors degree in Information Technology from the University of
South-Eastern Norway. During the three years at the university I collaborated
with many local businesses to develop various web based applications. I also
interned in a local business for my last semester. I gained a lot of practical
experience in designing and building software. Though the education itself was
great I am incredibly grateful for the practical experience I gained from
working on various systems, of varying degrees of complexity.
    
I started programming when I was about 10 or 12. I can't quite remember when
the first time I programmed was, but I remember how: Computercraft was a
minecraft mod that allowed you to program computers inside the game. You could
write programs that interacted with the minecraft world in different ways, like
managing inventories or opening/closing doors. It was a great way for a kid to
learn the basics of programming, it goes to show how simple computers that
force you to program can be a great educational experience. Computercraft uses
Lua as it's programming language, a language that I still occasionally use.

In middle school and high school I got into game development. First using C++,
before getting demotivated with the insane learning curve that I faced from
never having any formal experience in programming or computer science. Instead
I went on to use Construct 2, Unity, and currently I am developing my own game
engine in Common Lisp.

My current main interests in software are Lisp, Linux and Guix. This website is
written in Common Lisp, hosted on a Linux machine, running in a container that
was built using Guix.
